okay so at the Hudson Bay chopping class
on day four and have set that here in
the woods yesterday with Brian Manning
that the pan cover was pulled off the
trap in the trap wasn't set off had some
scratch marks in the pan cover he was
using some wax paper so we pulled that
trap and looked at it and had a little
bit too much pan travel no where's that
pan traveled too far before the dog was
let go to set the trap off so it spooked
the animal away that's okay we didn't
reset right there that's a lesson
learned we put some gray fox Glenn lure
inside the hole and today it paid off
with a nice gray fox for Brian Manning
top of the leaderboard with three
animals now you got a skunk musk rat
gray fox there you go good job brother
thank you okay so I'm back out here
where Brian caught that Fox this morning
and we've pulled his trap out here the
Hudson Bay trapping class is over and I
wanted to kind of recreate what we did
on the reset to catch that Fox and why
we didn't catch it and a simple tool
that you can use to fix the problem now
I've got an old Victor square jaw here
he had a newer Duke style trap I think
that he was using in the problem that he
ran into yesterday and the reason he
didn't catch yesterday and his trap was
dug up was because of pan travel and
what I mean by pan travel is once you
have set your trap you're paying once it
gets to a level position that pan should
not be able to travel below level like
this one is without setting off the trap
because when the animal steps on that
and he feels that movement he's gonna
pull his foot straight out your trap now
you've already warned that animal what's
going on you're not going to catch him
so what we had to do is we had to fix
that pan travel no way you do that is
with a very simple tool and you can pick
this tool up in any traffic supply place
just about I'll try to get them on our
website as well but it's about a $15.00
tool but you can fix any of your traps
with this if you're special if you're
using these older traps that you buy
because you're doing budget trapping and
there's nothing wrong with that this
Victor square jaw is going to catch I'm
going to put it right back in this hole
we're going to reset it and I guarantee
it's going to catch
within the next few days but what we
need to do is this tools got a slot in
it that goes right over the top of the
trap frame where that dog is and what we
need to do is we need to pull that dog
out a little bit in other words we need
to move the trap frame a little bit this
way and that will pull that dog further
out so that when that pan drops down
below level it will go off so we're just
going to put this in here and we're
going to give it just a little bit about
tweak not much at all and then we're
going to double check it so we'll open
up our dog and we'll set our trap and
all we really want is for that trap pan
to go to level once it's level that's
all we want as soon as it moves another
hare we want that thing to go off that's
what I'm looking for
that's pretty close I'm gonna go ahead
and try that here now a lot of times
what we'll do here at the Pathfinder
school is especially because I'm doing a
lot of experimentation and new bird
traps around it teaching and things like
that is we'll put earth anchors in the
ground in certain locations that I know
are key set locations and then we'll use
a quick link like this D with a screw on
it that we can just screw on to the
earth anchor loop and then screwed on to
the trap so let me show you that real
quick so what I've got here is I've got
this link and I can just hook that link
into my earth anchor hook a piece of my
trap chain into that link or this loop
it doesn't really matter
tighten that quick snap went down and
now I'm set and I've got a new trap in
there so if I get a trap that gets
messed up or I get a trap that gets all
bloody or something like that
or I want to change this trap or just
pull this trap for a while I can quickly
take them out and leave the earth
anchors in come back and do a set
another time or even the next year
okay so okay
another muskrat here today and this is
in the same exact hole that the muskrat
came from yesterday
sandwich ten-in-one 10 Conibear not
going anywhere there's a little
compliment right here that comes in
where this runs from this old beaver
swamp it runs right down through here
and waters going out into an outlet
right here and that's where these rats
are swimming through in this channel I
actually have a foothold trap in a
pocket set not even ten yards away but
this one tens caught two days in a row
now Brian Manning caught a muskrat here
yesterday and I caught a muskrat here
this morning so we're gonna reset this
you